style: Cleanup ERTP Guide (#660)
Agoric/documentation: main/ertp/guide/purses-and-payments.md

# Purses and Payments

There are different kinds of digital assets:
- Currency-like, such as our imaginary Quatloos.
- Goods-like, such as theater tickets or magic weapons for use in a game.

> - Abstract rights, such as authorization to participate in a particular contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Abstract rights, such as the right to participate in a particular contract.
```
Introducing the term "authorization" here seems like we might be introducing a new concept for the reader to learn, rather than just speaking informally. I think the original wording was fine.

Author: This was an attempt to fix the awkwardness of "rights, such as the right...". I've tweaked it to "Abstract rights, such as participation in a particular contract", but let me know if you still prefer the original and I'll revert.

In ERTP, digital assets always exist in either a `purse` or a `payment`:
- **`purse`**: Holds
  an amount of same-branded digital assets until part or
  all of them are withdrawn into a `payment`. A new `purse` is created
  by an `issuer` and can only hold assets of that `issuer`'s `brand`.
- **`payment`**:
  Holds a quantity of same-branded digital assets to transfer to another party.
  A `payment` is created containing either new assets from a `mint` or existing assets
  withdrawn from a `purse` or transferred from one or more other consumed `payment`s.
  It can only hold assets of the same `brand` as its source(s).

Any number of `purses` or `payments` can hold assets
of any particular `brand`. Neither a `purse` nor a `payment` can ever change their
associated `brand`.

> Each `purse` and `payment` object contains a specific single amount of digital assets,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each `purse` and `payment` object contains a specific amount of digital assets,
```
I think "single" is confusing here. Is a set of assets a singular something or a plural something?

which may be none at all ("empty" in [AmountMath](./amount-math.md) terms). In the same way
you might have separate bank accounts for different purposes,
you can have separate purses for the same `brand` of digital asset.
One of your purses might hold 2 Quatloos while another holds 9000 Quatloos.

When you deposit assets into a `purse`, they are added to
whatever assets already exist there. So a 3 Quatloos deposit
into a `purse` with 8 Quatloos, results in a `purse` with 11 Quatloos. Similarly,
then withdrawing 6 Quatloos from that `purse` into a new `payment` leaves the `purse`
with 5 Quatloos and the new `payment` with 6 Quatloos.

When adding a `payment` to a `purse`, you must add the entire `payment`. To
only add part of a `payment`, you must first use [`issuer.split()`](/ertp/api/issuer.md#issuer-split-payment-paymentamounta)
or [`issuer.splitMany()`](/ertp/api/issuer.md#issuer-splitmany-payment-amountarray)

> to split it into two or more new `payments`.

Reviewer: Might as well take this opportunity to deprecate `issuer.split`, `issuer.splitMany`, and `issuer.combine`. In anticipation of https://github.com/Agoric/agoric-sdk/pull/5008 I'd like to discourage `issuer.claim` as well, but perhaps that's premature.

Author: Leaving for now while we work through @dtribble's concerns. Deprecation remains easy to add.

`mints` create entirely new digital assets and put them in a new `payment`.
You also create a `payment` by withdrawing assets from a `purse`, by splitting an
existing `payment`, or by combining multiple `payments` into one new one. Note
the `brand` of the new `payment` is the same as the associated `brand` of its originating `mint`, `purse` or `payment`.

In ERTP, assets are not transferred directly from one `purse` to another.
Instead, the transfer must be mediated by a `payment` as demonstrated below.
ERTP does not implement a way to perform the actual send and receive operations,

> although they are provided in the Agoric stack by [`E()`](/guides/js-programming/eventual-send.md).

Reviewer: This seems confusing. Rather than point out that ERTP doesn't do it, just explain how to do it with `E`.

10 Quatloos or it will be deleted from its `issuer` records and no
longer have any value. While a `payment` can be either combined with others or
split into multiple `payments`, in both cases the original `payment(s)`
are consumed and the results put in one or more new `payments`.

A `payment` can be deposited into a purse, split into multiple

> `payments`, combined with other `payments`, or claimed (getting an exclusive `payment` and revoking access from anyone else).

Reviewer: Note that we will probably retire the split and combine operations, and move `claim` from issue to purse. Just noting for you. No change suggested for this PR.

A `payment` is often received from other parties, but is not self-verifying
and cannot be trusted to provide its own true value.
To get the verified balance
of a `payment`, use the `getAmountOf(payment)` method on the trusted `issuer`
for the `payment`'s `brand`.

To get the `issuer` for a `brand` you didn't create, 
ask someone you trust. For example, the venue creating tickets for shows
can be trusted to give you the tickets' `issuer`. Or, a friend might have 
a cryptocurrency they like, and, if you trust them, you might accept 
that the `issuer` they give you is valid.

To consume a `payment` into a new `purse`:
1. Get the `payment`'s trusted `issuer`.
2. Use the `issuer` to create an empty `purse` for that `brand`.
3. Deposit the `payment` into the new `purse`.

`Payments` have only one API method, but many methods for other ERTP components
have `payments` as arguments and effectively operate on a `payment`. The following is a
brief description and example of each `payment`-related method. For
more detail, click the method's name to go to its entry in the [ERTP
API Reference](/ertp/api/).
- [`payment.getAllegedBrand()`](../api/payment.md#payment-getallegedbrand)

>   - Return the `brand` indicating the kind of digital asset this `payment` purports to be

Reviewer: Beware conflicting meanings of "kind" in context, as noted above.
